# property-price-recommendation
Final Year Project - PROPERTY SELLING AND RENTAL PRICE RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM

Residential property is a basic need of humans and it poses a critical impact on the urban economy. The existing research works related to property price prediction mostly focus on regression models with property characteristics, facilities and location. Besides, a review on the existing property recommendation system in the market re- veals that property value prediction is still yet to be popularized. Problems arise as the property price can be unstable and difficult to determine the optimum pricing. Thus, this project focuses on predictive modelling and analysis which considers physical characteristics, surrounding locations and demographics in property valuation, by aim- ing to construct analytical datasets, performing feature selection, and deploy suitable predictive models to predict selling and rental price of property. Several algorithms have been designed to transform data from different sources to analytical datasets of two cases: based on surrounding POI or their categories. Feature selection is done to select important features. Both regression and classification modelling approaches are used with four regression models, namely Linear Regression, CART Regressor, Random Forest Regressor and Gradient Boosting Regressor, and three classification models, which are Decision Tree Classifier, Random Forest Classifier and XGBoost Classifier. In sale price prediction, feasible models are Gradient Boosting Regressor and Random Forest Classifier with accuracy of 64.85% and 81.18% using categories of POI based dataset with Median Price as predictant. In rental price prediction, Ran- dom Forest Regressor achieved 90.52% in POI-based dataset while XGBoost Classifier achieved 89.96% using POI-based dataset with sale price merged in.
